>> Hey. >> How's it going?
>> It's great. >> Yeah, good to be back together. Let's
kick this off, huh? >> Yeah.
>> Lots of good things to share with folks, as well as some humor at the end. So hello
and welcome to Python Bytes, where we deliver Python news and headlines directly to your
earbuds. This is episode 328, recorded March 21st, 2023. I'm Michael Kennedy.
- And I am Brian Okken.
- And this episode is brought to you
by Microsoft for Startups Founders Hub.
We have a really fun one for you again this time,
something different, so be sure to check that out.
Connect with us over on Mastodon.
All of the links are in the show notes.
And if you are not hearing our voice at this moment live
because you're part of the live stream,
be sure to visit pythonbytes.fm/live.
Sign up to get notified about the live streams
and be part of it every now and then.
It's a lot of fun.
Speaking of fun, Brian, share with us this first thing you've discovered.
Sure.
I think I've got the wrong thing up.
Just sec.
there we go.
I, I actually, I wanted to talk about zip app.
did you know about zip app?
I have never seen zip app in action, but I have heard of zip app and it is,
it's a very interesting idea.
New in three, five.
So it's not that old.
Is it?
3.5 still sounds new to me. I don't care what people say about
this. Really? It sounds new to me. It has a sink in a way and
like that's like the first point where I feel like it's kind of
as far back as you can go and still be modern Python. Okay,
maybe three six because you don't get f strings. But come
on. It's still it's not that old. It's not a someone's been
around forever.
You're more lenient than I am. I'm like a three seven is the
the start of the world. But anyway, okay. So zip app,
it's been around for a while. So all, all supported Pythons use it. Right. So,
and but but apparently there was like a
flub up in the announcement when it came out.
So people didn't quite see it when it came out. So it's anyway,
so that what it is,
it's in the standard library and it's a module that provides tools to managing
the creation of zip files containing Python code.
And they can be directly interpreted
by the Python interpreter.
So it's a command line interface and an API,
but the deal is you kind of take like a package
or Python package you got or a file or whatever,
and it creates an executable for you.
It's well, not really an executable
'cause it doesn't have the Python part.
So you still have to run it with Python,
but it includes all the stuff except for Python.
So kind of like if you could hand out just a Python script
and say run this, but it has dependencies
and it has a lot of structure,
but you don't have to make people deal with that, right?
You don't have to have them create virtual environments
and install stuff because it can all just.
- I think, I mean, I haven't played with it enough
to know if it has, oh yeah, has requirements too.
Install all of your applications dependencies
in the app directory using pip.
So yeah, so there's like a, there's a thing,
there's like a tutorial inside the documentation saying
how to create a standalone application with ZipApp.
So yes, it includes your dependencies
and then you just create this little thing.
So you can say, you can give it to somebody and say,
run this on Python five or, you know,
or whatever you support.
And that's pretty cool.
Let's get all that all bundled in.
I haven't tried this yet,
but I didn't even know this was here until recently.
Brett Cannon mentioned PYZ files.
And I'm like, what the heck is a PYZ file?
And I looked it up.
It's these Python's zip app things.
So pretty neat.
There's some examples in there.
So yeah, that's just, I guess this just
if anybody was trying to think of some way,
'cause we have talked about like lightweight ways
to ship stuff to people, Python stuff to people.
And I think it's fine to tell people,
assume that most, I mean, depending on your audience,
but there's a lot of people that it's fine to say,
it's running Python, so you're gonna have to install Python.
But then, and it's easy to send a file,
but sending a bunch of stuff is a little bit harder.
I mean, you could, if they're developers,
you can say, here's the repo, just download it,
install requirements, and there you go.
But for a lot of people, that's a little too much.
So this is kind of neat.
The other use case that I think is a really cool one
that I've seen is using it within CI/CD pipeline.
So if you have a stage that you want to,
all you're doing is pulling stuff in and running it anyway,
might as well just have it all zipped up already.
So it's a cool way to do it.
- Yeah, it's super cool.
- Just a quick one.
- Yeah, Henry on the audience says,
Python can run zip apps files directly.
PYZ files has been supported since well before 3.5.
3.5 just makes it easier to do.
- Oh, really? Okay.
- Yeah, apparently.
Yeah, I thought that that was true,
but yeah, the zip app is really cool.
- Neat.
All right. - Indeed.
- Cool, so well, what do you have for us?
- I wanna tell you all about maybe a use case
or a story of like how you can just take Python
and solve your own interesting little problems.
So this comes unknowingly through Rhett Turnbull,
who shared a blog post in sort of an interesting
circular way over on Mastodon,
and says, "Great blog post from EQ
"on reverse engineering the Apple News app
"with Python and NerdPower."
That sounds fun, right?
So this is an article that you can check out,
And basically it says, look, one way that's awesome
to do a bunch of research and gather up a bunch of news
is Apple News.
And there's a way in Apple News to say, read later.
But because it's Apple News,
it's like tries as much as possible to keep you
within its little walled garden of Apple News.
For example, if you share it with somebody,
it doesn't share the original link,
it shares the Apple News link.
And if you wanna access those links
outside of the Apple News app, well, nope,
You don't get that, right?
And so this EQ person, who is the nickname or online name
of Dave Bullock, says, "Let's see, I reached out
"to Rhett Turnbull," here's the circular bit,
"about his OXX or macOS photos Python library
"that he had been using to extract data from photos,
"which have a similar issue," and says,
"You seem to be familiar with ripping stuff
out of the internal of these macOS apps.
What about this one?
And it got a few hints, and turned out that it was able
to pull in some information to actually get the Apple News link
out of a list of saved related things hidden somewhere,
and then goes through using Python to actually--
Python plus Beautiful Soup to pull that out into something
that is meaningful and you can actually share with folks,
which is pretty cool.
And then it said, well, I shared this back with Rhett,
and Rhett's like, oh, that's awesome.
How about I create a whole CLI library
that lets people do that and stash it into a SQLite one,
and then who knows, maybe you connect that to Dataset
from Simon Willison, and you know,
like it can just go from there.
So there's Apple news to SQLite
as a CLI that came out of this whole journey.
But I just thought it was a really cool use case
of like, look, you don't need to be trying
create the next major API service or the major web app.
Here's just a fun way to like, I've got this problem,
I've got the structured data,
and maybe Python can solve my problem here.
- Yeah, usually can.
- Yeah, anyway, a lot of fun.
People can check this out.
And I think if you're looking for ways
to get better with Python or practice with Python
or do interesting little projects,
maybe this will inspire you
because it's not a ton of work for this, right?
- Yeah, we need nerd power t-shirts.
Nerd power, I think.
- Oh yes, I got some t-shirt stuff to share with you
at the end as part of our joke.
So I don't know if there's a nerd power one out there.
Just real quickly on the audience,
Fabio asks, a while ago I talked about a testing,
a paid search engine that was Kaggy that I've been using.
I'm still using Kaggy, I've been enjoying Kaggy a lot.
So that's the one.
All right.
Now, Brian, we ready to tell folks about our sponsor
before we move on?
- I think that's a good idea.
- I do as well.
And as promised, I got something fun for you this time.
So remember, this one is brought to you by Microsoft
for Startups Founders Hub.
One of the really important things you get
is access to the open access and credits
to the open AI APIs and the Azure OpenAI service.
So I said, "Hey, let's take the boring,
boring, the straightforward ad
that we had written originally,
and I asked OpenAI to rewrite it."
So I said, "Hey, OpenAI,
can you rewrite the Founders Hub ad
as an American football coach trying to motivate his team?"
So, what do we get back?
Attention all startup founders, this is a call to action.
Are you ready to reach the next level?
Then listen up.
Microsoft for Startups Founders Hub
is offering a rare opportunity,
a chance to get in the game with OpenAI's APIs
and Azure OpenAI service.
These tools that'll take you to new heights
with the power of generative AI at your fingertips.
But it's not just the technology, it's the support system.
You get 150K in Azure credits
and the richest deal from any cloud provider.
And tech support, man, it's top notch.
The team at Microsoft will give you guidance.
The guidance you need to make the big plays
with one-on-one technical advisory.
And you'll get a network of mentors,
seasoned players in the startup world
who will be out there to help you navigate the field
and make the tough calls.
You'll get expert help on product fundraising,
go to market and more.
This is your chance to start a founders
and get in the game and make a big impact.
There's no funding requirement,
whether you're in idea phase or further along.
All you do is sign up and get ready to unleash
the power of AI in your startup.
So what are you waiting for?
Head over to pythonbytes.fm/foundershub2022
and join Microsoft for Startups Founders Hub today.
The time is now, the game is on,
you've got the tools you need to succeed.
- Yeah, thank you Microsoft for sponsoring the show
and OpenAI for bringing home the championship.
There we go.
- Nice.
- That's fun, right?
- That's good.
- Yeah. - Yeah.
Love it.
Okay.
- I also love context managers, how about you?
- I do, but just an interesting suggestion
from the audience of would it be different
if Ted Lasso wrote it?
- Oh, I bet it would.
Well, you know, there's always next week.
Yeah, so let's talk about context managers.
So I have used, I love context managers
and I've used a context lib context manager decorator
to create context managers.
And if you've never tried it,
so one of the, it's like the easiest way
to make a context manager.
With context manager, you decorate a function
with the decorator context manager
and then you put a yield in the middle of it
or anywhere in it, it can even loop.
Oh, wait, maybe it can't loop.
No, that's something else.
That's a generator.
No, context manager, you put a yield in it,
and it can be in the middle of like an exception block
or try accept or something else.
And then, so it runs the first part,
and then after the width block,
it tears it down with the teardown.
It's nice.
I knew about this,
but then I was reading an article from Trey Hunter.
What is a context manager?
And it's actually a really kind of nice article
that talks about all the stuff.
Basically, if you didn't have it,
so first off, it tells you what a context manager is.
And one of the ones that people are most familiar with
maybe is open file as F.
So with open file as F,
or any with block you're using a context manager, right?
So opening file is great because then it closes afterwards.
and then he talks through some things.
The next example he brings up is context-lib-changedir.
I don't know how I didn't know this was here,
but what it does is if you use with-changedir,
it changes your directory,
but then when you're done with the with block, it goes back.
Cool, somehow I missed that.
I was going in and looking,
and there's a whole bunch of other stuff.
>> Nice.
>> I did know about closing,
So like the file open thing,
you can anything that has a close statement in it,
you can use the context manager closing to use for line and page.
Wait, with closing URL open as an example,
because then when you're done for URL lib,
it closes it.
So anything that you have to do a close command afterwards,
you can use closing.
That's cool. But there's async closing also.
Cool. There's a bunch.
There's suppress.
If for a part of your code you want to suppress
a particular possible exception,
you can suppress it for a little bit of your code.
Super handy. Redirect standard out,
but just for a little while, you can do that.
Then in redirect stranded error,
and then there's our changed error,
but there's a bunch of stuff in here.
So I guess I encourage people to go through,
go look at the context lib
and look at some of the stuff you can do
'cause there's a lot of great stuff there.
- Neat.
That is really neat.
I am a huge fan of these types of things.
And hold on, don't scroll anymore.
Do you see when Changer came into existence?
3.11.
- 3.11.
- That might be why we don't know about it
'cause that's brand new.
- Yeah, nice.
- But I love these types of things we say.
for this block of code, I want something to be true.
And then afterwards, I don't want to think
about how it happens, like however I get out of here,
early return, exception, done, whatever,
just undo the thing.
- Yeah, yeah.
- Really, really nice.
I use some of these, I mean, not,
I don't know of a built-in one for this,
but that with Colorama to say, during this section,
I want all the output to be this color,
and then no matter how I leave, roll it back to the default
for like text output and things like that, right?
- Oh, neat.
Otherwise, you got to keep resetting like,
"Oh, I'm returning here, so I got to reset here and here."
It's just like, "Nope, in this block, it's blue.
Now, it's not blue." Those things, I just love it.
Having these built-in, I didn't realize there's so many built-in. This is great.
>> That's a cool use case.
I like that for a context.
>> Yeah, thanks.
>> I like that.
>> Indeed, indeed.
This next item here that I got for us, Brian,
this is a follow-up to a question.
When you talked about Knox, somebody asked,
can I use that with Poetry?
And we didn't know for sure,
but you can bet the audience knows.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, so yes, in fact,
there is a Knox-Poetry library that you can use.
And it's super simple.
So the way Knox works, quick reminder for folks
who maybe didn't listen or didn't listen that closely
or just forgot from last week is,
you create a session for some operation and you say,
this session is going to run Python 3.10
or in 3.9 together, right?
And then you just say, session install what you need to.
For example, here, the example on this page says,
install pytest and install the local package
that you're working with plus its dependencies,
and then run pytest.
The problem was, there's a couple issues.
If you don't have something that understands poetry,
then you end up,
the package would just the wheel metadata
and not the lock file gets installed,
which means you don't get the pinned versions installed
that you're hoping for,
or the dependency constraints that you're hoping for.
You just get whatever the latest of those are.
pytest wouldn't be constrained.
Poetry would be installed as a build back end every time.
There's just a bunch of stuff that's a little bit clumsier.
What you get here is you basically get a library that you say,
instead of from Knox import session,
you say from Knox poetry import session,
and this is a wrapper proxy to
the underlying Knox session
that configures things to make sure that poetry works.
For example, the install will use the lock file that poetry uses.
>> Cool.
>> Other types of things. There's a bunch of stuff.
It'll build the wheel from the local package.
It'll install the wheel as a pytest package
and then invoke pytest to run the test
against that installation, which is pretty cool.
So it also has some other types of things
that you can put on here.
Where did they go?
There's a bunch of poetry-specific things.
You can say session.poetry.
Hmm, there it is.
like session.poetry.installroot
or session.poetry.buildpackage
as a wheel or a disk, an export requirements,
all these different things if you wanna leverage the fact
that it is actually Poetry,
or you can just use this wrapper
and write exactly the same code,
but it now works correctly with your project.
- Oh, nice.
- Yeah. - I like it.
- This is from, came to us from,
not one, but two people said,
"Hey, you guys, John Hagan and Mark Pruitt."
So thank you both for sending in your particular use cases
for that.
- Yeah.
- And it also comes to us from Claudio Cholowitz
who created the hyper modern Python project cookie cutter.
And this is part of that to support that project.
I actually had him on talk Python a little while ago,
back in about a year ago.
So if you wanna hear way more about this,
we probably even talked about this in passing
and I was like, oh, okay, interesting.
Like didn't really, so yeah, there it is.
We hear so many things like sometimes, you know, it doesn't always stick the
first time, even though we try.
Yeah.
That happens.
It does happen.
All right.
And it also happens that we are at the end of our main topics, but you got
any extras you want to share?
I do.
And it kind of talks about, it's a little bit similar to what we're just talking
about.
So I was just at PI cascades this weekend.
this last weekend, just got back.
I took the train back yesterday.
It was a lovely ride.
- How was the train ride?
Did you enjoy it?
- Well, I did on the way back.
On the way there, I kind of thought I would be able to sleep
but I wasn't able to.
So on the way back, it's a nine hour drive
or nine hour train ride from eight or nine
from here to Vancouver.
On the way back, I'm like, I'll just work.
So I just edited a bunch of audio.
So I was working the whole way back is great.
but one of the things that happened to me, there was a couple of people
saying, Oh yeah, we met, I was at, you know, I was at PyCon,
Portland or Ohio or something like that.
And we met and I'm like, that's wonderful.
I meet so many people and I have such a bad memory.
I mean, I trust that I don't, I feel bad about not remembering
everybody I ran into, but yeah.
Anyway.
sorry if I, if I said hi and introduced myself and you already.
We already have done that, my apologies.
- I'm bad at this too.
It's not ideal.
It's also not personal.
People sometimes take it personally.
It's like, well, it's really hard when you meet 400 people.
- Yeah, and then also the questions of,
you talked about this one thing, it was kind of like that.
What was that again?
I'm like, oh, sorry.
That's why I have Google search or whatever.
So I did give a talk and it's great.
the slides are up at pythontest.com/pykaskades2023.
And they are gonna chop up the videos.
And I think that's what they've told me
that they're gonna chop up the videos.
But for now the day one and day twos are available.
If you really wanna watch mine,
it's about sharing pytest fixtures.
It's at what?
Hour 22 hours, 40 minutes, 58 seconds,
approximately on day two.
but that exact link is in our show notes as well.
If you want to click through and watch 25 minutes
of me talking about packaging.
So it was really fun.
I had a good time.
So do you have any extras?
- I do.
I just added one.
I realized.
So today is Talk Python's birthday.
I believe, got to do math.
I think it's eight years old, which is nuts.
It's either seven or eight.
That's nuts.
But the reason I thought of that is,
the latest episode right now is Python Tips and Tricks
for Better Testing.
That also brings into some of the stuff
that you talked about in your talk.
So if people are interested,
they should check out this episode.
And they can see a cool hat if they do.
- Nice.
Cool.
- All right.
That's not what I was planning on sharing,
but yeah, it ties right in there.
Now, what I wanted to share was one thing.
So let me tell you about my router challenges here.
So as you know, Brian, but probably almost no one else
does, I have my office above my garage.
My garage is a separate building from my house.
And there's no ethernet connecting
as much as I've tried to make that happen.
I haven't been able to make it happen.
So I'm like, well, how do I make this faster?
I've been using a two-node mesh network.
And it turns out that people getting stuff around us
been causing a lot of interference.
And so my wife needs one closer to her office
and I need one closer to mine.
And one's got to be plugged into the internet.
And we were like, kind of like disagreeing.
Like I want it closer to my office.
No closer to mine.
Mine's a separate building, I need more, right?
And back and forth.
And so I ended up solving this with too much money
and getting this thing called the Atlas Max 6E
Link This router.
I don't know if I recommend it
'cause it's really expensive,
but it's one of the few things that both has three nodes
and it's 6E Wi-Fi, not just Wi-Fi 6.
All right, good combo.
So this is not really my recommendation
of what I wanna tell you about.
My recommendation is,
I've always considered these mesh network things
to be like, well, if I'm on Wi-Fi
and that talks to one of the nodes
and then the node talks to the main node at the house,
that's just as good.
Like, why would I ever say plug in Ethernet
to the secondary node, right?
Still Wi-Fi, it's just one more hop, right?
Well, I was getting a little interference in the house.
I said, well, let me just try plugging in,
not to the thing that connects to the internet,
but to the node that wirelessly across the buildings
connects to the other thing that connects to the internet.
Do you know what I learned?
I learned something insane that,
I don't know if I can simulate it here,
across building, I'm apparently not getting it right now.
I'm only getting a rough 570 megabit
over wireless across buildings.
Earlier I was getting 800 megabit over Wi-Fi.
- You're also streaming video at the same time.
- Yeah, we're streaming video and doing other stuff,
right, uploading, downloading.
But, so my advice to people, if you have a mesh network,
even though you're connected to one of these nodes,
you think, well, that's wireless to the end anyway?
Like, is it really worth Ethernet?
Yes.
I said speedtest.net.
I'll try one more.
I was completely blown away
by how much of a difference it makes, but yeah,
it's really, really impressive
to plug into these wireless things.
So if you've got a mesh network, try Ethernet to it,
even if it doesn't matter.
That's my extra.
- Cool.
- Yeah, so.
- I had to look it up.
I didn't know what Wi-Fi 6E was.
So looked it up.
It's 11AX.
That makes sense.
So I test Wi-Fi stuff,
but I'm testing it on the standard side.
So we get it before they decide what the buzzword.
- Interesting.
Yeah, I see.
Okay.
- AX is really cool.
It's the first standard that, I mean,
that is-- now I'm nerding out on Wi-Fi.
But it's the first standard that's not bidirectional the same.
So the protocol from up from the node to your device
is different than the other way.
Kind of like cellular is like that too.
But before AX, it was identical.
The same sort of protocol and traffic and speed
and everything in both directions.
But this way, yeah.
So anyway, so neat.
- Yeah, anyway, really, really cool.
Out in the audience, David Poole says,
"Linux just makes good stuff.
"Wired is always better than wireless.
"I work on WiFi professionally."
Yeah, for sure.
All right. - Nice.
- Great, ready for some jokes?
- Yeah.
- So I'm gonna take us to an unexpected place, Etsy.
You ready for this?
Now, this is pretty-- - Oh, I love these.
I considered not putting this here
'cause it's fairly graphical,
like you need to see it in nature.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna take our favorite one
and put it as a chapter art for people to appreciate, okay?
- Okay.
- So these are like text signs that have words or sayings
that don't necessarily match with what you might expect.
So for example, here's one,
and it looks kind of like a RAM chip
that's hot or something.
And it has a little heat wave coming up.
It says, "Caution, magic smoke cannot be reinserted
once released. Isn't that awesome? Yeah. Yeah. Here's one. This is a throwback to quantum
mechanics, I believe. There's little wavy hexagonal lines and a bunch of question marks.
There's uncertainty. Do not attempt to measure. This one, I think probably all of us can relate
to this. I've created some of this myself and had to deal with it. It's a hexagon with some
piece of technology in the middle. It says, "Caution, cursed technology inside."
Yeah, it's a pentagon in there.
Cool.
Nice.
Yeah, yeah.
Pentagon rather.
Thank you.
And let's see, maybe, maybe one more here.
If we can find it.
Oh, this one.
This will be a good one.
A gen two and it's got a gen two logo in the middle.
And it says the warning.
Colonel may need recompiling in order to change sound volume.
All right.
Well, there you have it, folks.
That's one of my joke is there's a whole bunch of these you can click around and enjoy them for a while
They're pretty good. Nice. These are great. Yeah
Cool. Well, thanks again. Wonderful. I'm so sure was Thank You Brian for being here and thank you everyone for listening
Really appreciate it
See y'all
[BLANK_AUDIO]